The transmitter.

In our last tutorial we saw how the UART transmitter and receiver works, 
Now we have a clear picture of what we would like to design.
A UART transmitter and a receiver.
We would now keep getting into each of the sub circuits until we get to the logic gates.

Let us now break in to the transmitter circuit, to see what the designer did.

 inside the transmitter is  two other subcircuits. the main transmitter and baud generator.

the baud generator generates the clock which is used to synchronize the transmitter .
Its inputs  consist of the clock and reset which is used to synchronise the circuit. the baud select signal use to select the baud rate.
 then the clear clock signal is not used on the transmitter, so its set to zero.
it would be used when we are discussing about the receiver.
The baud generator has only one output which is the generated baud signal which is used to clock the transmitter.

the input to the transmitter are the dout signal which is the data to be sent . 
the rts or ready to send signal which signifies that transmitter is ready for transmission and most be on for transmission to take place .
the stop signal when set to zero enables continous transmission after one transfer. but when set to 1, only one transfer can be done .

the output are the done signal which come one after transmission is complete,
and the tx bit signal which is the actual transmitted bit and is sent serially , one after another.

let me now show you how the designer generated the vhdl code for the transmitter.

this is my quartus editor. I will start my coding the default structure of every vhdl code .
it consists of the entity called transmitter and the architecture called structure.

next I will write out all the ports of the transmitter .
clock, reset, rts, baud select, d out, done , tx bit.

next I would introduce these two components. with their ports .

finally I would map their ports together.

I created two signals baud signal which connects the baud clock from the baud generator to the baud clock on the transmitter.
 and also the reset signal that connects the two resets together.
Next, the complete vhdl code and simulation.

this is the full code.

Now, for the simulation.
I will start by getting the free running clock , then I enable the clock to run.
 and then the  baud select signal set to zero which is the fastest baudrate .

the baud clock is now clocking the transmitter.


Now when i reset the circuit and set the rts signal on. the tx bit comes on steadily.
This a major characteristics of the U A R T .
which is that the transmission line is steadliy high or idle.


and when i put an arbitrary value on the d out line.
watch how the tx bit signal comes on and off transmitting the signal.
and when it is done, the done signal turn on.
if the stop bit was set to zero. 
the transmission will continously repeat it self . 
but it is set to one. so the transmission halts after one transfer.
you can also reset to start afresh.
this process is repeated again with a different higher value and slower baud rate.
notice that the tx bit does blink as fast as when we used the faster baud rate.

 In our next lesson, We will dive into this transmitter and see the circuitary  inside, we will also write the vhdl code .

