this is the main  transmitter vhdl code.
the first block is the vhdl standard libraries. 
next the transmitter port including: 
dout, rts, baud clock, reset, stop, tx bit, sent ok.

next the signals we will discuss that later.

the parity generator component and mapping.

this subcircuit takes our input data and generates a parity bit which will be used for error detection at the receiver.

if this parity bit is not thesame with the parity bit generated at the receiver.
the receiver error signal comes on.

next are the data register in and data register one.
they are used to store received data.
tx bit is the transmitted bit .
nobits signal is used to signal the end of data reception and transmitter should move to stage 3.
this signal comes on when the number of received bit equals 18.
next is the transmitter registers .

the tx fsm register stores the current state of the transmitter .
the sent ok, stores the Wether transmission is complete or not .

data register stores the data to be transmitted.
the tx bit count register stores the number of transmitted bit. 
the tx busy register is used to set the transmission line high until when it is ready to transmit data .
this signal is inverted and used with an or gate on the tx bit.
so whenever it is high, tx bit is allowed to pass and whenever it is low , the tx bit is high or idle.
next is the transmitter state machine .
state 0, state 1, state 2 , and state 3.

they can be represented here with multiplexers 
state 0 is the idle state , no transmission occurs here.
if the ready to send signal is on. 
the transmitter resets the data register , tx bit count  register and sets the txbusy register high and moves to stage 2 .

stage 2 and state 3 are identical .
bit transmission occurs here.
the data to be sent consists of a zero start bit , a 16 bit data to be transmitted, a parity bit ,
and finally the stop bit or a high or one.
the tx bit count register starts  counting at these stages using an adder.

whenever the tx bit count register equals 19 in decimal and 12 in hexadecimal.
the nobits signal is high and the tx fsm moves to stage 3 to mark the end of data transmission.
at this stage ,
the sent ok signal is set also to mark that transmission has ended .
if the stop signal is on, the process ends at stage 3 else if it is zero .
the transmitter goes back to zero and starts transmission afresh .
finally,  the tx busy register is set low and the tx bit line goes back to high or idle state .

so, these are the logics contained inside this transmitter circuit.

leave your questions inthe review section.
in the next course I will continue with another transmission protocols.

check out projectfpga.com for upcoming courses.
i will be remaking all tutorials to udemy standard.
please support my course by leaving a kind review.
it will get better with time.
